Exercise: Installing NetBeans
IDE on Windows. Exercise Objective. In
this exercise we'll proceed to install
the Integrated Development Environment
(IDE) of NetBeans. Will cover the process
of downloading and installing NetBeans
Download the NetBeans IDE. Go to
the following link and download NetBeans
Select the platform you use. In this case
we'll select NetBeans for Windows option
Once the file is downloaded we'll double
click to open the Installer. Before we
install the IDE, we can customize it.
We click on Customize button. Deselect
GlassFish server and click OK. This is
because we will install a newer version
of this Java Application Server. If you
don't know what an Application Server is
don't worry, we'll cover it later in the
course. Installing NetBeans IDE. Once
we have finished customizing the
installation, click on Next to continue.
Accept the license agreement and click on
Next.
If necessary rename the installation path
of NetBeans as shown below. The JDK path
is selected automatically and click on
Next, but we leave the default values and
click on Next
Accept the default values and click on
install. The installation process starts.
It takes a few minutes to finish. The
installation ends and click on Finish. Go
to programs to open NetBeans, we search
for NetBeans IDE 8.2. The NetBeans
IDE starts.
The start page shows up. You can deselect on Show on StartUp and close
the start page. Finally the NetBeans
IDE is ready to use. We finish the
installation process of NetBeans,
Exercise Conclusion: With this exercise
we have installed the tools that we'll
use throughout the course. It's worth
mentioning that is possible to use even
a Notepad, however the idea is to use
real-world tools and with more
experience you can select the
development tool Integrated Development
Environment that suits you best.
For more details of NetBeans you can
check the next link.